---
date: '2024-12-12T19:38:08+01:00'
draft: false
title: 'Software wishlist'
showToc: true
---

# Software wishlist

For a while now I've been keeping a list of features or changes I really wish
the software I use to have. I consider most of these to be obviously good ideas. 
I don't feel particularly creative having come up with them and I'm not sure why
these haven't been implemented yet in most cases. 

# Software

## MacOS

The systray has tons of problems. Loads of apps rely on it, it contains
functionality not available elsewhere. But it is fighting for space with the
menu bar and the notch on modern Macbooks. Windows has had a simple overflow
menu in forever, if an icon doesn't fit on the systray, there's an arrow to view
all icons which don't fit. On MacOS, icons which dont fit are simply hidden. You
need to reorder and drag icons behind the notch until you get the one you want.
This can take half a minute every single time and is extremely fiddly. 

## Jellyfin

Remember the playback position on long audio files. This is already a thing for
video files. Jellyfin is great, its interface is sooo much faster and better
than any other open source media center I've ever used. Introducing this simple
feature would make it fit for audiobooks and podcasts. Right now I am forced to
use Audiobookshelf or Symfonium. I'd love to have this feature in Jellyfin
natively

## Audiobookshelf

Why is there a panel at the top with a GIANT dropshadow and a single button
which leads to a menu with only one entry? Can this be removed and the button to
hide the subtitles instead be placed somewhere else?

Why does the side panel have such a giant dropshadow? It's not as big as the top
panel shadow, but both are huge and make the interface look a bit dated. 

## Obsidian

Right now the experience of viewing pdf Files in Obsidian on mobile is
unfortunately borderline unusable. If I put my phone in landscape, less than 50%
of the screen actually gets used for the pdf. Pdf content isn't adaptive and can
get quite small, so for any pdf viewer, preserving screen space is very
important 

I would like a way to hide all UI except for a single element to bring the rest
of the UI back. The android pdf viewer does this quite nicely with toggling all
UI by tapping on an empty spot on the PDF. A fullscreen button in the toolbar
that currently also contains the page number and zoom controls would also work. 

This bothered me enough to write a plugin for it
(https://github.com/paperbenni/obsidian-zenmode), but auto hiding the UI would
be even better.



## K-9 Mail

Nested folders. Nested folders just get displayed as folders with `/` in the
name. I get that this is not a feature because it takes effort to implement, but
I would really love to have it. If you have lots of nested folders, some of
which you only need very infrequently then it is very annoying to have to scroll
past them every time you want to open a top level folder which presumably gets
more use. 

Also last time I checked, K-9 Mail did have vim like shortcuts for moving up and
down, but they were reversed. 


## Google Drive

The audio player has looots of problems. Its width is very narrow, so searching
for a specific part of an audio file is very difficult and requires a lot of
precision. Its design is very dated and there are no features like jumping ahead
10 seconds or rewinding 10 seconds.

The process for transferring ownership is very counterintuitive. Share the file,
and in the list of people to share with, there is a menu option to transfer it
next to the name of the person. 

## Cosmic DE

I am aware that this is alpha software, but just in case some of these problems
aren't already being worked on, here are some things I noticed while using it.

There is no media key support.

A lot of the wallpapers look quite busy. I get that this is personal preference,
but I'd like to have some wallpapers that fade into be background more. Most of
the time you aren't actively looking at the wallpaper, it's just there while you
look at something else, so it shouldn't be distracting or making things harder
to read. 

Super + right click drag allows resizing a window, but also right clicks on the
window. 

Scrolling with the mouse wheel while in the workspace switcher should switch
workspaces like it does on Gnome. Right now it does nothing. 

